if you look at the glasses in front of
me like a toady before all of this color
has come
barrel from the making process of the
barrel where we toasted in chareth and
when you enter into the Jack Daniels
family brand I always like to start
people off with gentleman jack a
gentleman jack is the only whiskey that
jack daniels makes this charcoal
mellowed twice every whiskey that you
see here it's charcoal mellowed at least
once and that's when it's a new whiskey
and before it's matured with gentleman
Jack after it's been matured in the
barrel we'll bring it back to the
distillery and we'll basically go back
through charcoal again and what we found
is that after the whiskey has been
matured in the barrel there are things
that have been absorbed by the barrel or
by the whiskey from the barrel that
basically can be reabsorbed by going
back through charcoal again so Gentleman
Jack is the only whiskey that's in the
Jack Daniels family that's charcoal
mellow twice you might wonder what does
that second pass in charcoal mellow Lee
do that makes Gentleman Jack different
than any other thing we make and I
believe the most distinct thing that it
does is it removes a lot of the oak from
the finish Jack Daniels being a
Tennessee whiskey and always being in a
brand new barrel we have a very
prominent oak finish associated with
almost all of our products Gentleman
Jack would be the one exception what we
found is that by going through charcoal
melting a second time we can retain a
lot of the sweet vanilla and caramel
character that's withdrawn from the
barrel during maturation but we can take
away a lot of the oak or what somehow
will become a little bit of a bitter
finish to many and and pull that away so
we're able to steer the Jack Daniels
flavor profile into a place where for
people who maybe tasted old number seven
and said that well I don't necessarily
like Jack Daniels ol number seven
because I think it tastes like charcoal
that's usually what people will say and
even though there is no charcoal
flavoring and that charcoal doesn't have
any flavoring what they're reacting to
is the oak finish from the barrel so
when we sample Gentleman Jack when you
check its nose the aroma it's definitely
very distinctly vanilla and caramel very
sweet and light we pick it up and just
kind of give it a nice swirl
it's got a nice lighter more of a straw
brownish hue than the rest of the Jack
Daniels family that comes from charcoal
mellowing it twice and if you check its
nose it's it is distinctly sweet built
very much vanilla and caramel and
character on the nose it has a very very
front of mouth feel very vanilla and
caramel almost all the flavors at the
midpoint of the tongue in forward and
there's a very very little finish from
the oak in the back of the throat so it
ends very quickly very soft landing what
we have found is that for people who
historically drank a clear spirit
Gentleman Jack kind of serves as a nice
entry point into brown spirits for them
people who've tried American whiskey and
bourbon type products who have
conditioned their palate to just scotch
because scotches matured in a used
barrel and doesn't have a lot of oak and
its finish a lot of Scotch drinkers find
that Gentleman Jack of the Jack Daniels
family suits them the best but it's it's
an excellent whisky whether neat or on
the rocks it also makes an excellent
Manhattan so we do have certain
cocktails that we recommend it to be
used into but it's been around actually
since 1988
and today is the fastest-growing brand
in the Jack Daniels family